# Invites

Chats and channels may have a public username or a private invite link: private invite links may be further enhanced with per-user join requests.

### Public usernames

Only supergroups and channels may have a public usernames: normal groups must be migrated to a supergroup before they can be assigned a username, see the migration docs » for more info.

channels.updateUsername can be used to directly assign or change the public username of a supergroup or channel.
You can use channels.checkUsername before assigning the username to make sure that the specified username is valid and available.

channels.joinChannel can be used to join a supergroup or channel using peer information obtained using contacts.resolveUsername.

### Invite links

Private invite links can optionally have an expiration date, a usage limit, and can even be set to only allow users into the channel, supergroup or group upon explicit approval of an admin: see join requests » for more info.

Invite links match the following regex: @(?:t|telegram)\.(?:me|dog)/(joinchat/|\+)?([\w-]+)@i.
The first matching group can be passed to the hash parameter of messages.checkChatInvite to get info about the chat, and messages.importChatInvite to join the chat.
messages.checkChatInvite may return chatInvitePeek only for supergroups and channels, in which case the user may directly fetch chat messages using updates, messages.getHistory and channels.getMessages until the time indicated by the expires unixtime field.

Newly created groups, supergroups and channel already have a default invite link.
To generate a new one, use messages.exportChatInvite.
To get info about existing chat invites, optionally filtering only links created by a given admin, use messages.getExportedChatInvites.
messages.getExportedChatInvite can be used to obtain info about a specific invite link.

messages.editExportedChatInvite is used to edit or revoke existing invite links: revoked links cannot be used by users to join the group, but info about revoked links can still be fetched using messages.getExportedChatInvites with the revoked flag set.
Use messages.deleteExportedChatInvite to permanently remove an invite link, and messages.deleteRevokedExportedChatInvites to permanently remove a revoked invite link.

messages.getChatInviteImporters can be used to fetch info about users that joined using a specific invite link.

Some basic stats about the number of invite links generated by a given admin can be fetched using messages.getAdminsWithInvites.

### Join requests

If the request_needed flag is set when generating or editing an invite link, or if the appropriate option is toggled using channels.toggleJoinRequest, users importing the invite link using messages.importChatInvite will receive an INVITE_REQUEST_SENT RPC error, indicating that an join request was successfully sent to the chat admins.

Related supergroup information will also have the channel.join_request flag set accordingly.

Bot administrators will receive a updateBotChatInviteRequester update for each separate join request.
User administrators will receive an updatePendingJoinRequests, and should invoke messages.getChatInviteImporters with the requested flag set to obtain a list of users waiting to be admitted into the group.

Administrators can then use messages.hideChatJoinRequest to approve or dismiss a join request, and messages.hideAllChatJoinRequests to approve or dismiss in bulk multiple join requests.

Administrators can also choose to send a message to the user before admitting them into the group: in this case, graphical clients on the user side should display a message on the dialog bar of the chat with the admin, indicating that the chat was initiated by the admin of a chat/channel they have recently requested to join, see the action bar documentation » for more info.

